


“Some twenty years ago I saw, or thought I saw, a synchronal or simultaneous flashing of
fireflies. I could hardly believe my eyes, for such a thing to occur among insects is certainly contrary to
all natural laws.”

So wrote Philip Laurent in the journal Science in 1917, as he joined the debate about this perplexing
phenomenon. For 300 years, Western travelers to Southeast Asia had been returning with tales of
enormous congregations of fireflies blinking on and off in unison, in displays that supposedly stretched
for miles along the riverbanks. These anecdotal reports, often written in the romantic style favored by
authors of travel books, provoked @ widespread disbelief. How could thousands of fireflies orchestrate
their flashings so precisely and on such a vast scale?

For decades, no one could come up with a plausible theory,( 1 )by the late 1960s, the pieces of the
puzzle began to fall into place. One clue was so obvious that nearly everyone missed it. Synchronous
fireflies not only flash in unison — they flash in rhythm, at a constant tempo. Even when isolated from
one another, they still keep to a steady beat. That implies that each insect must have its own means of
keeping time, some sort of internal clock. This hypothetical oscillator is still unidentified anatomically
but is presumed to be a cluster of neurons somewhere in the firefly’s tiny brain. Much like the natural
pacemaker in our hearts, the oscillator fires repetitively, generating an electrical rhythm that travels
downstream to the firefly’s lantern and ultimately triggers its periodic flash.

The second clue came from the work of the biologist John Buck, who did more than anyone else to
make the study of synchronous fireflies scientifically respectable. In the mid-1960s, he and his wife,
Elisabeth, traveled to Thailand for the first time, in hopes of seeing the spectacular displays for
themselves. In an informal but revealing experiment, they captured scores of fireflies along the tidal
rivers near Bangkok and released them in their darkened hotel room. The insects flitted about
nervously, then gradually settled down all over the walls and ceiling, always spacing themselves at least
10 centimeters apart. ( 2 ) they twinkled incoherently. As the Bucks watched in silent wonderment,
pairs and then trios began to pulse in unison. Pockets of synchrony continued to emerge and grow,
( 3 )as many as a dozen fireflies were blinking on and off in perfect concert.

These observations suggested that the fireflies must somehow be adjusting their rhythms in response to
the flashes of others. To test that hypothesis directly, Buck and his colleagues later conducted laboratory
studies where they flashed an artificial light at a firefly (to mimic the flash of another) and measured its
response. They found that an individual firefly will shift the timing of its subsequent flashes in a
consistent, predictable manner, and that the size and direction of the shift depend on when in the cycle
the stimulus was received. For some species, the stimulus always advanced the firefly’s rhythm, as if
setting its clock ahead; for other species, the clock could be either delayed or advanced, depending on
whether the firefly was just about to flash, whether it was halfway between flashes, and so on.

( 4 ), the two clues suggested that the flash rhythm was regulated by an internal, resettable oscillator.
( 5 ) that immediately suggested a possible synchronization mechanism: In a congregation of flashing
fireflies, every one is continually sending and receiving signals, shifting the rhythms of others and being
shifted by them in turn. Out of the hubbub, sync somehow emerges spontaneously.

We are ( 6 ) led to entertain an explanation that seemed unthinkable just a few decades ago 一 the
fireflies organize themselves. No maestro is required, and it doesn’t matter what the weather is like.
Sync occurs through mutual cuing, in the same way that an orchestra can keep perfect time without a
conductor. What’s counterintuitive here is that the insects don’t need to be intelligent. They have all the
ingredients they need: Each firefly contains an oscillator — a little metronome — whose timing adjusts
automatically in response to the flashes of others.

(Adapted from Steven H. Strogatz, Sync: How Order Emerges from Chaos in the Universe, Nature, and
Daily Life, 2003)


Choose the one from options 1-4 that best describes Philip Laurent's state of mind as indicated by the underlined part (1). 1.
What he saw was disgusting. 2.
What he saw was incredible. 4. what he saw was scary.
[2] Choose the most appropriate one from the choices 1 - 4 that the underlined parts (2) and (4) refer to. 1.

Fireflies coordinate the flashing of their lights. 2.

Fireflies emit light along the riverbanks. 3.

Fireflies flock together in Southeast Asia. 4.

Fireflies move in liaison with other fireflies.

[3] Choose one of the following from the blanks ( 1 )1( 6 ) ABs iL) REALS HARK 1 ~ 6. Do not choose the same option more than once.
Do not choose the same option more than once. The word which should be at the beginning of the sentence is also lowercased.

1. and 2. at first 3. but

4. taken together 5. thus 6. until
[4] The following sentence is the gist of the whole sentence. The following sentence gives the gist of the whole English sentence.

(a) Choose the word that best fits in (i) (f) from the choices 1 through 9 below. Do not choose the same option twice.
Though some people questioned their( 7 ), for several hundred years, many Western travelers to
Southeast Asia reported on a particular natural phenomenon — the synchronized blinking of groups of
fireflies. It was not until the 1960s that a ( 4 ) theory came together to account for how this is
possible. Firstly, what people noticed is that the fireflies blinked at a steady tempo. This ability, people
reasoned, must come from something internal to the fireflies, though nobody has yet determined
where this ability ( ウ ), anatomically speaking.

Another piece of the puzzle was solved by John Buck, who, together with his wife, captured fireflies
in Thailand and released them into their darkened hotel room. What they noticed was the way the
fireflies spaced themselves on the walls and ceiling and slowly began to synchronize their flashes based
on the fireflies nearest them. This synchronization increasingly spread to other fireflies. Buck later
tested his ideas in the laboratory, using the flash of an artificial light to explore how fireflies adjust
their own flashes accordingly. Like a clock being adjusted forwards or backwards, some fireflies
advanced their flashes and some delayed them to achieve synchronization with the ( エ ). Through
simple ( オ ) fireflies achieve a( カ ) that to us might seem like it would require greater intelligence.

1. accounts         2. adjust           3. credible         4. feat              5. mechanisms

6. memory         7. resides           8. resonates        9. stimulus

[5] Considering the proportional divisions used in the English text, choose the most appropriate word that fits in the following blanks ( 1 ), ( 1 ), ( 5 ).
Choose the most appropriate one from the choices 1 to 9. The order is not required. Do not choose the same option twice.

Fireflies congregate like ( 1 ). The light in each of their tails blinks steadily like( 2 )or( 3 ).
They adjust their blinks according to the fireflies flashing around them like ( 4 ). Through this
process, they gradually sync together with other fireflies like ( 5 ).

1. a beating heart

2. a changing traffic light

3. a group of musicians playing without a conductor
4. a metronome

5. an oscillating fan

6. people gathering at a church

7. people traveling to Southeast Asia

8. someone changing their schedule

9. someone changing the time on a clock

CHONMRTAwWNE

2  

Many people oretain an interest in politics — we all would like laws made to suit us — but fewer
and fewer people seem interested in being politicians. It’s simply not a very attractive job. In a world of
myriad possibilities, especially for those who have the technical abilities that bring lavish rewards in the
private sector, politics looks like a real grind. Politicians have to work very hard, under intense
scrutiny, for little reward. They sometimes suffer public contempt and media abuse; more often their
hard work is greeted with indifference. Unsurprisingly, the class of people interested in doing politics is
shrinking. This is good news if you do happen to have an appetite ( 1 ) it. The competition is not
what it was, so that a desire to get into politics is often all it takes to be given that chance. In Britain the
current crop of leading politicians is drawn from a remarkably narrow set of political careerists, most of
who have been doing politics since they were at university. Many of them were at university together.

The present British prime minister, foreign secretary, chancellor of the exchequer, education secretary,
leader of the opposition, shadow chancellor and shadow home secretary were all part of the same
generation of Oxford politics students. I didn’t go to Oxford, but I did go to the same school as David
Cameron — Eton — at the same time he did. When we were there, he was pointed out to me as
someone who wanted to be prime minister. We were sixteen. Eton is an absurdly privileged school
full of well-connected and ambitious boys, but few had an interest in politics: most wanted to be bankers
or film stars. I only heard of one other who wanted to be prime minister. His name was Boris Johnson.
«Watching these two rise effortlessly to the top of British politics makes it hard to believe that the
greasy pole is as greasy as it used to be.

Does it matter that the political class is shrinking? In one sense, no. It isa( 2) of broad satisfaction
with the political system that most people don’t want to have anything to do with politics if they can
help it. If they were really unhappy, the high entry barriers would not put them off. More likely in their
@tage they would tear them down.

However, there are real dangers to this narrowing of the political class. It opens up a gap between
politicians and the rest of uo, which can gbneed coalemnpt boil says. [LZ], we will start to jpoE down
on them as weirdos. Meanwhile, the politicians will start to look down on us as fools, because we don’t
understand the business they are in. The disdain many voters feel for professional politicians is matched
by the disdain many professional politicians feel for the voters. Each thinks the other lot don’t get
( 3 ). As the gap grows, it becomes easier for politicians to gravitate towards their fellow elites, who at
least have a respect for insider knowledge. The political network interlocks with networks of financial,
technological and military expertise, which locks the public out. A narrow class of politicians is bound
to have a @skewed view of the world it inhabits, because members rarely get to see how their world
looks from the outside. The failure to anticipate the financial crisis of 2008 is evidence of how easily
closed-off groups can lose sight of what they are doing.

Above all, there is the danger that Benjamin Constant warned against. If we leave routine politics in
the hands of a narrow group of specialists, we won’t know how to take it back from them when we need
it. People who think they can pick up politics when they need it often find that when they really need it
they don’t know ( 4 ) to find it. The only way to learn how to do politics is to keep on doing it, in
good times as well as bad. We need more politics and we need more politicians.

(Adapted from David Runciman, Politics, 2014)

Choose the one from options 1 through 5 that most closely matches the meaning of the underlined parts (1) through (6).

① 1. are encouraged to have   2. continue to have      3. obtain
4. regain           5. remain
® 1. dull work         2. groundbreaking discovery 3. hike
4. joy            5. reward
@® 1. appropriately       2. fortunately        3. obviously
4. ridiculously         5. unfortunately
® 1. ambition         2. anger          3. love
4. panic            5. sadness
® 1. cancel          2. cause to weaken      3. give birth to
4. inhale           5. intensify
⑥ 1. comprehensive      2. distorted         3. grand
4. identical       5. tiny

[2] Choose the most appropriate word in 1( 4 ) from the choices 1 ~ 5.
(1) 1. for     2. in       3. of       4. to       5. with
( 2 ) 1. design    2. fantasy     3. hope      4. post      5. sign
( 3 ) 1. along    2. it       3. on       4. sick      5. with
( 4 ) 1. this     2. whatever    3. when     4. where     5. who

[3]Rearrange the following words and phrases in the order of grammatical and content most appropriate to complete X. Write the number of the 2nd word and the number of the 5th word in the order of grammatical and content most appropriate to complete X. 
 
1. have a peculiar                     2. if we

3. interest in politics                               4. is only for people who happen.
5. politics                  6. think that professional

7. to

[4] Choose the one from choices 1 through 5 that best matches the meaning of the underlined part (). 1.
1. it takes more time to get ahead in British politics than before. 2. to get ahead in British politics, you do not have time to sell oil as much as before.
2. to get ahead in British politics, you do not have time to sell oil as much as before.
3. in order to get ahead in the British politics, you do not need to use sycophancy as much as before.
4. it is not as difficult to get ahead in British politics as it used to be.
5. it is not so rare to get ahead in British politics as it used to be.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
[5] Choose the title that best describes the content of the English text from options 1 through 5.
1. Engineers: The New British Elites               2. Mutual Hate
3. No Pain, No Gain                                4. Get Involved in Politics Before It’s Too Late
5. Why We Shouldn’t Trust Politicians
[6] Choose the three that best match the content of the English text from the choices 1 ~ 7. However, the order of the answers does not matter.
1. Many students at Eton College wanted to become law-makers.
2. People lose sight of what they are doing when they are in closed groups.
3. People with technical expertise tend not to be interested in becoming politicians.
4
5

Politicians inevitably respect the voters.
. The more politicians and people look down on each other, the more they will bond with the
people in their class.
6. The writer attended the University of Oxford with David Cameron.
7. Ultimately, it does not matter whether the political class is getting smaller.

3  Read the following radio interview transcript between Lulu Garcia-Navarro (LGN) and Joyce
Poole (JP) and answer the questions which follow.

LGN: For almost half a century, Joyce Poole has been listening to what elephants have to say and
studying the way they behave and communicate. Now she and her husband, Petter Granli, have
created the African Elephant Ethogram, a comprehensive audio-visual library of the animals.
Tell us about these recordings. What is an ethogram, and how does it work?

JP: Well, an ethogram is really a library of all the behaviors of a species. And so this ethogram is not
just the vocalizations, the calls of elephants. But it’s also all their behaviors. So the way they
communicate, using their ears and their trunk and also the other things they do, for instance,
different techniques they use to feed. But, of course, people are — especially radio programs —
would be very interested in the sounds that they make.

LGN: Indeed, we are. And I want to play a few of these. Let’s listen to something called the baroo
rumble.

(soundbite of elephant rumbling)

JP: Baroo rumbles are made when a calf or elephant is feeling @hard done by. It’s a kind of gwoe is
me, and please come and make me feel better and comfort me.

LGN: All right. Let’s hear now what you call a greeting ceremony.

(soundbite of elephant trumpeting)

LGN: Wow. Tell us about this one.

JP: Well, you know, elephants live in families. Elephants live up to 70 years old. And so members of
a family stay together for life. But they’re like our families. They’re not always together. So the
families will split up. And then when they come back together, they have greeting ceremonies. So
they rumble. And they trumpet. They urinate and defecate and spin around and clank their tusks
together. It’s an extraordinary sight.

(Adapted from National Public Radio, “Scientist Joyce Poole on What Elephants Have to Say.” May 30, 2021)

[1] Choose the most similar meaning for each underlined word or expression © through ③.

1. broad and in-depth                              2. clear and concise

3. fixed and permanent                              4. sound and sight
@® 1. hardy and strong                                  2. strong and stroppy

3. treated fairly but stern                           4. treated harshly or unfairly
@® 1. my life is so rewarding                          2. my life is so simple

3. my life is so tough                                 4. my life is so wonderful

(2] Which of the three statements listed below are most strongly supported by the interview? Your
answers may be in any order.

An ethogram is more than just a collection of animal sounds.

Elephants and calves use the baroo rumble in different ways.

Elephants stay together for life, never leaving each other’s side.

Elephants urinate and defecate when they see something extraordinary.

Elephants use more than one part of their body to communicate.

Elephants will only bang their tusks with other elephants when they are upset.

Poole has been studying elephants for longer than an elephant can live.

Rumbles are used by elephants to express both pleasure and displeasure.

団 Complete the following paragraph by filling in the blanks ( 1 ) through ( 6 ) from the options
below and based on the content of the interview above.

I heard this interview the other day on the radio about elephants. Did you know that elephants

have a special sound they make when they ( 1 )? They also have a sound they make when they’re
( 2 ) after a long separation. There is this couple who have made it their life’s (3) to record all of
their calls and stuff. You know, I thought only humans had ceremonies, but it( 4 ) out elephants do,
too. When they see each other again after a long separation, they get all excited, start trumpeting, and
( 5 ) themselves. I think I might try trumpeting when I get home tonight. Who knows, maybe I will
starta( 6 ). I think I’d better leave the rest of the ceremony to the elephants, though.

SONA ROVE

( 1 ) 1. are over the hill             2. are over the moon

3. have a crush on another elephant             4. think the world’s against them
( 2 ) 1. breaking up   2. catching up    3. keeping up     4. making up
( 3 ) 1. lesson      2. mission      3. savings      4. time
( 4 ) 1. breaks      2. finds        3. turns       4. works
(5 ) 1. feed       2. pamper      3. relieve       4. wash
( 6 ) 1. history      2. memory      3. trend       4. war


4 1) ~ (5) Choose the most appropriate word in the blank from the choices 1 to 4.
(1) She is one of those professors who (      ) smartphones in class.
1. refuse allowing       2. refuse to allow       3. refuses allowing      4. refuses to allow
(2) The restaurant is closed until (      ) notice.
1. brief                   2. farther                 3. further                 4. more
(3) Some studies show that listening to Mozart does not have a positive (      ) on your mental health.
1. affect                  2. care                    3. effect                  4. stain
(4) Please give this letter to (      ) the door.
1. whoever answer                                   2. whoever answers
3. whomever answer                                 4. whomever answers
(5) If I had been able to speak Spanish, I (      ) in Mexico last summer.
1. did not get lost                                     2. must not get lost

3. would not get lost                               4. would not have got lost


5.
The following English text describes the ethical aspects of artificial intelligence research.
Choose the most appropriate one as the "OMIA Sat" from the choices 1 ~ 9. Do not choose the same option twice.


Many kinds of researchers 一 biologists, psychologists, anthropologists, and so on 一 encounter( 1 )
at which they are asked about the ethics of their research. For now, A.I. research is mostly self-regulated
—a matter of ( 2 ), not rules. “The fact that papers on A.I. do come up on Twitter nontrivially often”
has made an( 3 ), Brent Hecht, a computerscience professor at Northwestern University, said. “The
vast majority of researchers don’t want to be the subject of these types of discussions.” Last year, I
participated in an online workshop organized by Partnership on A.I., a nonprofit coalition ( 4 ) by
several of the biggest tech firms. In the workshop, which was focused on ( 5 ) more responsible
research in the field, we discussed alternative release strategies: sharing new work in stages, or with
specific audiences, or only after risks have been ( 6 ). Hecht, who helped write the Association for
Computing Machinery blog post that called for a more organized ethics process, predicts that increasing
numbers of researchers, (7 ) what their babies could grow up to become, will begin avoiding certain
research topics.

(Adapted from Matthew Hutson, “Who should stop unethical A.L?” The New Yorker, February 15, 2021)

1. checkpoints                2. concluded                  3. contemplating

4. encouraging                5. expression                 6. impression

7. founded                   8. mitigated                   9. norms
